# Suzie World

This project is a blog powered by [Eleventy](https://www.11ty.dev/), a
lightweight static site generator. That means you get all the power of a
server-side framework but it builds plain HTML files for fast loading by your
visitors. This project includes some default posts and layouts you can use as a
foundation, and you can customize how your site builds in the JavaScript code.
üìö

_While you're working on the content in the editor your changes will happen ‚ú®
immediately in the preview window. As you code the site is serving files from a
local build directory. When you close the editor your site will run a `build`
script then serve the output as a fast and always-on static site._

## Prerequisites

You'll get best use out of this project if you're familiar with basic HTML and
JavaScript. This is a static site, which means the server builds it using the
content of the `src` folder, then is able to serve it to your users quickly. The
posts are in Markdown, which is similar to HTML (markup) but with a lot less
syntax!

## What's in this project?

‚Üê `README.md`: That‚Äôs this file, where you can tell people what your cool
website does and how you built it.

‚Üê `public/style.css`: The styling rules for your pages and posts.

‚Üê `.eleventy.js`: Here you can configure how Eleventy builds your content into
the site. Read through the initial blog posts in the site for steps on extending
this code.

‚Üê `package.json`: Your project's dependencies, where you will also find the
start command to run eleventy.

‚Üê `src/`: This folder contains all the files Eleventy will use to build your
site.

### Working in the `src/` folder üìÅ

‚Üê `index.md`, `posts.md`, `about.md`: These Markdown files include the content
for your Home, Posts, and About pages.

‚Üê `posts/`: These are the Markdown files for the posts that make up your
blog‚Äìyou can add new posts here and remove any you don't want. Each one includes
front matter that Eleventy uses to build the content into the site, passing the
data into the template referenced as `layout` at the top of the file.

‚Üê `_includes/layouts/`: This is where all of your page level layouts go. The
**\_** tells you that this is an _eleventy only_ folder. Each layout uses
[Nunjucks](https://mozilla.github.io/nunjucks/templating.html) to build the page
or post data into an HTML page. There is one base layout that all others extend.

‚Üê `seo.json`: When you're ready to share your new site or add a custom domain,
change SEO/meta settings in here.

**_Want a basic template version of this project to build your own Eleventy app?
Check out [Minimal Eleventy](https://glitch.com/edit/#!/remix/11ty)!_**

## Try this next üèóÔ∏è

With the site preview open on the right and the Glitch editor open on the left,
navigate through the initial blog posts to learn more and carry out some
development on your Eleventy site!

Your site can use incremental builds, so if for example you only change a
markdown file, Glitch would just rewrite the relevant page instead of rebuilding
the whole site‚Äìto enable this, change your `package.json` `start` command to
`eleventy --incremental --serve`.

_When you add or delete a file and your preview does not update straight away on
refresh, you can enter `eleventy --serve` in your project terminal to force a
rewrite._

Check out `TODO.md` for some more optional next steps.

![Glitch](https://cdn.glitch.com/a9975ea6-8949-4bab-addb-8a95021dc2da%2FLogo_Color.svg?v=1602781328576)

## You built this with Glitch!

[Glitch](https://glitch.com) is a friendly community where millions of people
come together to build web apps and websites.

- Want more details about Eleventy on Glitch? We've got a
  [Help Center article](https://help.glitch.com/kb/article/111) just for that.
- Need more help? [Check out our Help Center](https://help.glitch.com/) for
  answers to any common questions.
- Ready to make it official?
  [Become a paid Glitch member](https://glitch.com/pricing) to boost your app
  with private sharing, more storage and memory, domains and more.
